This directory contains a consistent set of developments for the
language in the ICFP-2016 submission.

This language includes products of measurable types.

The development is based on shared files, so that the developments are
all talking about the same language and semantics.


Measures.v gives a lightweight axiomatization of measure
theory.  Here we model a measure as an integrator (see, e.g., Pollard's
book).  If

mu : Measure A
and
f : A -> real,

then (mu f) is synonomous with (integral f d(mu)).  Note that we do
not keep track of whether f is measurable.

MyReals.v gives a similar lightweight axiomatization of all the facts we
need about the real numbers.

Weights.v gives additional axioms for weights (mostly not used in this
development).

Types.v defines the measurable types (Mtypes) and object types
(Otypes) of the language.

Syntax.v gives the syntax of the language used throughout.

MeasureSemantics.v gives the measure semantics (Section 4 of the ICFP
submission) 

SamplingSemantics.v gives the sampling semantics (Section 5.1) This is
a rejection semantics in that failing observations may be modeled by
non-terminating computations.

Measure_vs_Sampling.v proves the connection between the Measure
semantics and the Sampling semantics (Section 5.2, Theorem 3).

Substitutions.v provides some infrastructure for defining the
operational semantics and some lemmas about it.

OperationalSemantics.v gives the operational semantics.

Sampling_vs_Operational.v proves the adequacy of the operational
semantics relative to the sampling semantics (Theorem 5).

Known limitations of the proofs:

1.  We assume that measures can integrate over arbitrary functions,
not just measurable ones.  This allows us to ignore the issue of
measurability of the kernel functions (page 4, last para of section 4
and also footnote 1).

2.  We do not proves Theorem 4 (Rel is closed under omega-chains on
the left), as this would get us too far afield into order theory.

3.  We prove only the adequacy of the operational semantics, not its
soundness, which we presume is easy.





